I come from a family of engineers--chemical engineers, electrical engineers, systems engineers, mechanical engineers aerospace engineers--and I love math and science. However, no one in my family was really doing anything that inspired me. So when I chose to attend undergraduate school at Columbia University, turning down an offer from MIT, because I wanted to find passion along with intellectual stimulation. I believe I made the right choice, because as I earned my BS in Applied Physics, I also developed a sense of self and purpose. As one of the most diverse top-tier universities, Columbia exposed me to people with vastly different stories than my own and I learned in and out of class how deep inequaities run through every aspect of society. After graduating, I decided to fight for equity in education by becoming a general and special education high school math and science teacher. After four years, however, I missed the intellectual stimulation of a real mathematical challenge.

Since leaving the classroom I have worked in several different capacities, some in education, some not. The job most relevant to this story is some remote contracting work I did for an online SAT prep company (now expanding to other exams as well) called PrepScholar. I was only a math content writer, so I wrote practice questions and explanations and coded them in HTML to be put into their question bank. However, I was able to speak at length with the founders of the company, and these conversations are what bring me here. PrepScholar uses ML to analyze the questions on these standardized exams, and to analyze individual students' strengths and weaknesses as they complete their diagnostic at the start of the program. PrepScholar's algorithm generates a course of study for each individual student to target the highest impact areas--it determines which skills, at what difficulty, asked in which way the student should focus on to get the most out of their time. The results I saw were impressive.

For now, I want to take this course for the intellectual stimulation, and I'm interested in any company that is doing interesting, ethical work. Eventually, I want to know who else out there--if anyone--is using ML in educational technology. I'm extremely interested in the idea of applying ML and AI in educational technology as a way to really individualize learning to optimize each student's outcome. In practice, teachers often have to teach to the abilities of the "middle third", and that says nothing about incorporating student interests and best learning styles. I know there are schools in Silicon Valley where software engineers sit in classrooms and respond in real-time to teachers' feedback on the programs students are using. I'd like to take this a step further. The danger here is that people might think high quality teachers are unnecessary, but I see this technology (not quite sure what it will look like obviously) as a tool for teachers to use as they see fit. A tool to help them reach every student.

As a final side note and different direction I could see myself going in, I'm also interested to see how ML could help improve health outcomes for different populations. Especially because all medical files are digitized now, how can we harness all that data to find trends that were overlooked?
